*sum_usr_08.txt*	For Vim version 8.2	Last change: 2022 Jan 03

What I learned:

Use

	:split

to split the current window into two windows, leaving the cursor in the top
one. Close all windows except the current one with

	:only


Supplying a filename to ":split" opens a new window like before, but the top
window edits the file specified. To open a new, empty window, enter

	:new


Preceding ":split" with a count opens the new window that many lines high. Use

	CTRL-W +

to increase the current window's height by one line and

	CTRL-W -

to decrease it. Use a count to scale these changes:

	4 CTRL-W +

To set the current window's height, use

	{height}CTRL-W _

where {height} accepts an optional count. Providing no count sets the height to
its max.


Instead of splitting horizontally (stacked), windows can be split vertically.
Use

	:vsplit

to split a window vertically, leaving the cursor on the left one. This command
accepts the same arguments as :split. Open a new, empty window vertically with

	:vnew

Alternatively, use

	:vertical new

Preceding a split command with ":vertical" splits a window vertically. (This
command can actually be specified before any Ex command. However, if the Ex
command does not split a window, it behaves as if ":vertical" was not
specified.)

Prepend CTRL-W before a cursor key to move to the window in that direction:

	Normal mode command    Move to the window
	CTRL-W h	       on the left
	CTRL-W j	       below
	CTRL-W k	       above
	CTRL-W l	       on the right

	CTRL-W t	       at the top
	CTRL-W b	       at the bottom

Using CTRL-W before an uppercase cursor key (except 't' and 'b') moves the
current window to the farthest in that direction.


Specify the -o option when launching Vim to open a window for each file:

	vim -o one.c two.c three.c

Use -O instead to vertically split the windows.

If in Vim, invoke

	:all

to do the same as the -o option. For -O, use

	:vertical all


Start Vim with

	vimdiff one.c two.c

to see the differences between "one.c" and "two.c". Lines that are different
are highlighted. Lines that are the same are folded into a closed fold, which
is a line that represents a range of actual text lines. To open a closed fold,
position the cursor on the fold and enter

	zo

Close it by moving the cursor to a represented line and entering

	zc

To start diff mode in Vim, open one of the files to diff, then enter

	:vertical diffsplit other.c

Omit ":vertical" to split horizontally.

To scroll diff windows individually, use

	:set noscrollbind

To see the next difference after the cursor, enter

	]c

For the previous difference, enter

	[c

If necessary, use

	:diffupdate

to update diff highlighting and folds.

Resolve a difference by getting or putting a change. Get the change from the
other diff window at the current difference with

	do

Alternatively, put the change of the current window to the other one with

	dp


Instead of splitting a window, a window can be opened on a new tab page. Create
a tab page with

	:tabedit two.c

Move to the next tab page:

	gt

The previous tab page:

	gT

Precede any Ex command that opens a new window with ":tab" to open it in a new
tab page. (Like ":vertical", ":tab" can be used with any Ex command and leaves
alone those that do not open a new window.)

Close all tab pages except the current one with

	:tabonly


 vim:tw=78:isk=!-~,^*,^\|,^\":ts=8:noet:ft=help:norl:
