*sum_usr_22.txt*	For Vim version 8.2	Last change: 2022 Jan 03

What I learned:

Editing a directory opens the Netrw file browser, which displays status
information and the directory's contents. Pressing <F1> in the browser opens a
help file with usage information.


Use the ":cd" command to change the current directory:

	:cd path/to/new_directory

Print the current working directory with

	:pwd

Specify a hyphen '-' for the path in ":cd" to return to the previous directory.
Repeat this command to alternate between the last two directories.

Use

	:lcd

to change the directory of the current window only (i.e., change local
directory). Return to the shared directory by invoking a ":cd" command in the
same window.


Move the cursor over a word and enter

	gf

for Vim to try to find and edit the file with that name. The places Vim
searches for the file are specified by the 'path' option, which is a list of
directory names. The 'isfname' option determines what characters compose a file
name.

If no word for a particular file name exists, invoke

	:find filename

which behaves the same as ":edit" except it uses 'path'.

Use

	CTRL-W f

or

	:sfind filename

instead to open the file in a new window.

Start Vim via

	vim "+find filename"

to edit "filename" located somewhere in 'path'.


A buffer is a copy of a file being edited. When a buffer is changed and the
":write" command is used, the buffer's contents are written to its file. Vim
distinguishes three types of buffers: active, inactive, and hidden. The
following list summarizes their differences.

	Type	    Description
	Active	    In a window and has text loaded.
	Inactive    Not in a window and has no text loaded.
	Hidden	    Not in a window and has text loaded.

View the buffer list (all recorded buffers) with

	:buffers

or

	:ls

Each line of the buffer list shows the following information, respectively:
buffer number, flags, file name, and line number of last cursor position.

The following list indicates the possible flags and their meanings. The flag in
the leftmost column appears first in the flag field, the rightmost column last,
and flags sharing a column are mutually exclusive.

	Flag	Meaning
	u	Buffer is unlisted.
	 %	Current buffer.
	 #	Alternate buffer.
	  a	Buffer is active.
	  h	Buffer is hidden.
	   =	Buffer is read-only.
	   -	Buffer is not modifiable; the 'modifiable' option is off.
	    +	Buffer has been modified.

Edit a buffer with its number by using

	:buffer N

Alternatively, fully or partially specify the file name of the buffer:

	:buffer buffer_name

Partial specification works if and only if one match was found.

Use

	:sbuffer N

instead of ":buffer" to open the buffer in a new window.

Navigate the buffer list with the following commands:

	Ex command   Go to
	:bnext	     the next buffer
	:bprevious   the previous buffer
	:bfirst      the first buffer
	:blast	     the last buffer

Remove a buffer from the list with

	:bdelete N


 vim:tw=78:isk=!-~,^*,^\|,^\":ts=8:noet:ft=help:norl:
